Long, long ago there lived in Kyoto a brave soldier named Kintoki. Now he fell in love with a beautiful lady and married her. Not long after this, through the malice of some of his friends, he fell into disgrace at Court and was dismissed. This misfortune so preyed upon his mind that he did not long survive his dismissal. He died, leaving behind him his beautiful young wife to face the world alone. Fearing her husband's enemies, she fled to the Ashigara Mountains as soon as her husband was dead. There in the lonely forests where no one ever came except woodcutters, a little boy was born to her. She called him Kintaro or the Golden Boy. Now the remarkable thing about this child was his great strength, and as he grew older he grew stronger and stronger. By the time he was eight years of age he was able to cut down trees as quickly as the woodcutters. Then his mother gave him a large ax, and he used to go out in the forest and help the woodcutters, who called him "Wonder-child," and his mother the "Old Nurse of the Mountains," for they did not know her high rank. Another favorite pastime of Kintaro's was to smash up rocks and stones. You can imagine how strong he was!
Quite unlike other boys, Kintaro, grew up all alone in the mountain wilds. As he had no companions he made friends with all the animals and learned to understand them and to speak their strange talk. By degrees they all grew quite tame and looked upon Kintaro as their master, and he used them as his servants and messengers. But his special retainers were the bear, the deer, the monkey and the hare.
The bear often brought her cubs for Kintaro to romp with. When she came to take them home Kintaro would get on her back and have a ride to her cave. He was very fond of the deer too, and would often put his arms round the creature's neck to show that its long horns did not frighten him. Great was the fun they all had together.
One day, as usual, Kintaro went up into the mountains, followed by the bear, the deer, the monkey, and the hare. After walking for some time up hill and down dale and over rough roads, they suddenly came out upon a wide and grassy plain covered with pretty wild flowers.
Here, indeed, was a nice place where they could all have a good romp together. The deer rubbed his horns against a tree for pleasure, the monkey scratched his back, the hare smoothed his long ears, and the bear gave a grunt of satisfaction.
Kintaro said, "Here is a place for a good game. What do you all say to a wrestling match?"

The bear being the biggest and the oldest, answered for the others:

"That will be great fun," said she. "I am the strongest animal, so I will make the platform for the wrestlers." She set to work with a will to dig up the earth and to pat it into shape.

"All right," said Kintaro, "I will look on while you all wrestle with each other. I shall give a prize to the one who wins in each round."

"What fun! we shall all try to get the prize," said the bear.
The deer, the monkey and the hare set to work to help the bear raise the platform on which they were all to wrestle. When this was finished, Kintaro cried out:

"Now begin! the monkey and the hare shall open the sports and the deer shall be umpire. Now, Mr. Deer, you are to be umpire!"

"He, he!" answered the deer. "I will be umpire. Now, Mr. Monkey and Mr. Hare, if you are both ready, please walk out and take your places on the platform."

Then the monkey and the hare both hopped out, quickly and nimbly, to the wrestling platform. The deer, as umpire, stood between the two and called out:

"Red-back! Red-back!" (this to the monkey, who has a red back in Japan). "Are you ready?"

Then he turned to the hare:

"Long-ears! Long-ears! are you ready?"

Both the little wrestlers faced each other while the deer raised a leaf on high as signal. When he dropped the leaf the monkey and the hare rushed upon each other, crying "Yoisho, yoisho!"
While the monkey and the hare wrestled, the deer called out encouragingly or shouted warnings to each of them as the hare or the monkey pushed each other near the edge of the platform and were in danger of falling over.

"Red-back! Red-back! stand your ground!" called out the deer.

"Long-ears! Long-ears! be strong, be strong-don't let the monkey beat you!" grunted the bear.

So the monkey and the hare, encouraged by their friends, tried their very hardest to beat each other. The hare at last gained on the monkey. The monkey seemed to trip up, and the hare giving him a good push sent him flying off the platform with a bound.
The poor monkey sat up rubbing his back, and his face was very long as he screamed angrily. "Oh, oh! how my back hurts-my back hurts me!"

Seeing the monkey in this plight on the ground, the deer holding his leaf on high said:

"This round is finished-the hare has won."

Kintaro then opened his luncheon box and taking out a rice-dumpling, gave it to the hare saying:

"Here is your prize, and you have earned, it well!"
Now the monkey got up looking very cross, and as they say in Japan "his stomach stood up," for he felt that he had not been fairly beaten. So he said to Kintaro and the others who were standing by:

"I have not been fairly beaten. My foot slipped and I tumbled. Please give me another chance and let the hare wrestle with me for another round."

Then Kintaro consenting, the hare and the monkey began to wrestle again. Now, as every one knows, the monkey is a cunning animal by nature, and he made up his mind to get the best of the hare this time if it were possible. To do this, he thought that the best and surest way would be to get hold of the hare's long ear. This he soon managed to do. The hare was quite thrown off his guard by the pain of having his long ear pulled so hard. The monkey seizing his opportunity at last, caught hold of one of the hare's legs and sent him sprawling in the middle of the dais. The monkey was now the victor and received, a rice-dumpling from Kintaro, which pleased him so much that he quite forgot his sore back.
The deer with long horns and the hare with long ears, it must have been an amusing sight to those who watched this queer match. Suddenly the deer went down on one of his knees, and the bear with the leaf on high declared him beaten. In this way, sometimes the one, sometimes the other, conquering, the little party amused themselves till they were tired.

At last Kintaro got up and said:

"This is enough for to-day. What a nice place we have found for wrestling! Let us come again to-morrow. Now, we will all go home. Come along!" So saying, Kintaro led the way while the animals followed.

After walking some little distance they came out on the banks of a river flowing through a valley. Kintaro and his four furry friends stood and looked about for some means of crossing. Bridge there was none. The river rushed "don, don" on its way. All the animals looked serious, wondering how they could cross the stream and get home that evening.
Kintaro, however, said:

"Wait a moment. I will make a good bridge for you all in a few minutes."

The bear, the deer, the monkey and the hare looked at him to see what he would do now.

Kintaro went from one tree to another that grew along the river bank. At last he stopped in front of a very large tree that was growing at the water's edge. He took hold of the trunk and pulled it with all his might, once, twice, thrice! At the third pull, so great was Kintaro's strength that the roots gave way, and "meri, meri" (crash, crash), over fell the tree, forming an excellent bridge across the stream.
"There," said Kintaro, "what do you think of my bridge? It is quite safe, so follow me," and he stepped across first. The four animals followed. Never had they seen any one so strong before, and they all exclaimed:

"How strong he is! how strong he is!"

While all this was going on by the river a woodcutter, who happened to be standing on a rock overlooking the stream, had seen all that passed beneath him. He watched with great surprise Kintaro and his animal companions. He rubbed his eyes to be sure that he was not dreaming when he saw this boy pull over a tree by the roots and throw it across the stream to form a bridge.
The woodcutter, for such he seemed to be by his dress, marveled at all he saw, and said to himself:

"This is no ordinary child. Whose son can he be? I will find out before this day is done."

He hastened after the strange party and crossed the bridge behind them. Kintaro knew nothing of all this, and little guessed that he was being followed. On reaching the other side of the river he and the animals separated, they to their lairs in the woods and he to his mother, who was waiting for him.
As soon as he entered the cottage, which stood like a matchbox in the heart of the pine-woods, he went to greet his mother, saying:

"Okkasan (mother), here I am!"

"O, Kimbo!" said his mother with a bright smile, glad to see her boy home safe after the long day. "How late you are to-day. I feared that something had happened to you. Where have you been all the time?"

"I took my four friends, the bear, the deer, the monkey, and the hare, up into the hills. There I made them try a wrestling match, to see which was the strongest. We all enjoyed the sport, and are going to the same place to-morrow to have another match."

"Now tell me who is the strongest of all?" asked his mother, pretending not to know.
"Oh, mother," said Kintaro, "don't you know that I am the strongest? There was no need for me to wrestle with any of them."

"But next to you then, who is the strongest?"

"The bear comes next to me in strength," answered Kintaro.

"And after the bear?" asked his mother again.

"Next to the bear it is not easy to say which is the strongest, for the deer, the monkey, and the hare all seem to be as strong as each other," said Kintaro.

Suddenly Kintaro and his mother were startled by a voice from outside.

"Listen to me, little boy! Next time you go, take this old man with you to the wrestling match. He would like to join the sport too!"
It was the old woodcutter who had followed Kintaro from the river. He slipped off his clogs and entered the cottage. Yama-uba and her son were both taken by surprise. They looked at the intruder wonderingly and saw that he was some one they had never seen before.

"Who are you?" they both exclaimed.

Then the woodcutter laughed and said:

"It does not matter who I am yet, but let us see who has the strongest arm-this boy or myself?"

Then Kintaro, who had lived all his life in the forest, answered the old man without any ceremony, saying:

"We will have a try if you wish it, but you must not be angry whoever is beaten."
Then Kintaro and the woodcutter both put out their right arms and grasped each other's hands. For a long time Kintaro and the old man wrestled together in this way, each trying to bend the other's arm, but the old man was very strong, and the strange pair were evenly matched. At last the old man desisted, declaring it a drawn game.

"You are, indeed, a very strong child. There are few men who can boast of the strength of my right arm!" said the woodcutter. "I saw you first on the banks of the river a few hours ago, when you pulled up that large tree to make a bridge across the torrent. Hardly able to believe what I saw I followed you home. Your strength of arm, which I have just tried, proves what I saw this afternoon. When you are full-grown you will surely be the strongest man in all Japan. It is a pity that you are hidden away in these wild mountains."

Then he turned to Kintaro's mother:
"And you, mother, have you no thought of taking your child to the Capital, and of teaching him to carry a sword as befits a samurai (a Japanese knight)?"

"You are very kind to take so much interest in my son." replied the mother; "but he is as you see, wild and uneducated. I fear it would be very difficult to do as you say. Because of his great strength as an infant I hid him away in this unknown part of the country, for he hurt every one that came near him. I have often wished that I could, one day, see my boy a knight wearing two swords. But as we have no influential friend to introduce us at the Capital, I fear my hope will never come true."
"You need not trouble yourself about that. To tell you the truth I am no woodcutter! I am one of the great generals of Japan. My name is Sadamitsu, and I am a vassal of the powerful Lord Minamoto-no-Raiko. He ordered me to go round the country and look for boys who give promise of remarkable strength, so that they may be trained as soldiers for his army. I thought that I could best do this by assuming the disguise of a woodcutter. By good fortune, I have thus unexpectedly come across your son. Now if you really wish him to be a samurai, I will take him and present him to the Lord Raiko as a candidate for his service. What do you say to this?"

As the kind general gradually unfolded his plan the mother's heart was filled with a great joy. She saw that here was a wonderful chance of the one wish of her life being fulfilled-that of seeing Kintaro a samurai before she died.
Bowing her head to the ground, she replied:

"I will then entrust my son to you if you really mean what you say."

Kintaro had all this time been sitting by his mother's side listening to what they said. When his mother finished speaking, he exclaimed:

"Oh, joy! joy! I am to go with the general and one day I shall be a samurai!"
Thus Kintaro's fate was settled, and the general decided to start for the Capital at once, taking Kintaro with him. It need hardly be said that Yama-uba was sad at parting with her boy, for he was all that was left to her. But she hid her grief with a strong face. She knew that it was for her boy's good that he should leave her now. She must not discourage him just as he was setting out. Kintaro promised never to forget her, and said that as soon as he was a knight wearing two swords he would build her a home and take care of her in her old age.

All the animals, those he had tamed to serve him, the bear, the deer, the monkey, and the hare, as soon as they found out that he was going away, came to ask if they might attend him as usual. When they learned that he was going away for good they followed him to the foot of the mountain to see him off.
"Kimbo," said his mother, "mind and be a good boy."

"Mr. Kintaro," said the faithful animals, "we wish you good health on your travels."

Then they all climbed a tree to see the last of him. From that height they watched him and his shadow gradually grow smaller and smaller, till he was lost to sight.

The general Sadamitsu went on his way rejoicing at having so unexpectedly found such a prodigy as Kintaro.

Having arrived at their destination the general took Kintaro at once to his Lord, Minamoto-no-Raiko. He told him all about Kintaro and how he had found the child. Lord Raiko was delighted with the story, and having commanded Kintaro to be brought to him, made him one of his vassals at once.
Lord Raiko's army was famous for its band called "The Four Braves." These warriors were chosen by himself from amongst the bravest and strongest of his soldiers. The small and well-picked band was distinguished throughout the whole of Japan for the dauntless courage of its men.

When Kintaro grew up to be a man his master made him the Chief of the Four Braves. He was by far the strongest of them all. Soon after this event, news was brought to the city that a cannibal monster had taken up his abode not far away and that people were stricken with fear. Lord Raiko ordered Kintaro to the rescue. He immediately started off, delighted at the prospect of trying his sword.
Surprising the monster in its den, he made short work of cutting off its great head, which he carried back in triumph to his master.

Kintaro now rose to be the greatest hero of his country, and great was the power and honor and wealth that came to him. He now kept his promise and built a comfortable home for his old mother, who lived happily with him in the Capital to the end of her days.

Is not this the story of a great hero?

Perhaps you think that fishes were always fishes, and never lived
anywhere except in the water, but if you went to Australia and talked to
the black people in the sandy desert in the centre of the country, you
would learn something quite different. They would tell you that long,
long ago you would have met fishes on the land, wandering from place to
place, and hunting all sorts of animals, and if you consider how fishes
are made, you will understand how difficult this must have been and how
clever they were to do it. Indeed, so clever were they that they might
have been hunting still if a terrible thing had not happened.
One day the whole fish tribe came back very tired from a hunting
expedition, and looked about for a nice, cool spot in which to pitch
their camp. It was very hot, and they thought that they could not find
a more comfortable place than under the branches of a large tree which
grew by the bank of a river. So they made their fire to cook some food,
right on the edge of a steep bank, which had a deep pool of water lying
beneath it at the bottom. While the food was cooking they all stretched
themselves lazily out under the tree, and were just dropping off to
sleep when a big black cloud which they had never noticed spread over
the sun, and heavy drops of rain began to fall, so that the fire was
almost put out, and that, you know, is a very serious thing in savage
countries where they have no matches, for it is very hard to light it
again. To make matters worse, an icy wind began to blow, and the poor
fishes were chilled right through their bodies.

'This will never do,' said Thuggai, the oldest of the fish tribe. 'We
shall die of cold unless we can light the fire again,' and he bade his
sons rub two sticks together in the hope of kindling a flame, but though
they rubbed till they were tired, not a spark could they produce.
'Let me try,' cried Biernuga, the bony fish, but he had no better luck,
and no more had Kumbal, the bream, nor any of the rest.

'It is no use,' exclaimed Thuggai, at last. 'The wood is too wet. We
must just sit and wait till the sun comes out again and dries it.'
Then a very little fish indeed, not more than four inches long and the
youngest of the tribe, bowed himself before Thuggai, saying, 'Ask my
father, Guddhu the cod, to light the fire. He is skilled in magic more
than most fishes.' So Thuggai asked him, and Guddhu stripped some pieces
of bark off a tree, and placed them on top of the smouldering ashes.
Then he knelt by the side of the fire and blew at it for a long while,
till slowly the feeble red glow became a little stronger and the edges
of the bark showed signs of curling up. When the rest of the tribe saw
this they pressed close, keeping their backs towards the piercing wind,
but Guddhu told them they must go to the other side, as he wanted the
wind to fan his fire. By and by the spark grew into a flame, and a merry
crackling was heard.
'More wood,' cried Guddhi, and they all ran and gathered wood and heaped
it on the flames, which leaped and roared and sputtered.

'We shall soon be warm now,' said the people one to another. 'Truly
Guddhu is great'; and they crowded round again, closer and closer.
Suddenly, with a shriek, a blast of wind swept down from the hills
and blew the fire out towards them. They sprang back hurriedly, quite
forgetting where they stood, and all fell down the bank, each tumbling
over the other, till they rolled into the pool that lay below. Oh, how
cold it was in that dark water on which the sun never shone! Then in an
instant they felt warm again, for the fire, driven by the strong wind,
had followed them right down to the bottom of the pool, where it burned
as brightly as ever. And the fishes gathered round it as they had done
on the top of the cliff, and found the flames as hot as before, and that
fire never went out, like those upon land, but kept burning for ever.
So now you know why, if you dive deep down below the cold surface of
the water on a frosty day, you will find it comfortable and pleasant
underneath, and be quite sorry that you cannot stay there.

Among the mountain pastures and valleys that lie in the centre of France
there dwelt a mischievous kind of spirit. It was this spirit's delight to play
tricks on everybody, and particularly on the shepherds and the cowboys.
They never knew when they were safe from him, as he could change himself
into a man, woman or child, a stick, a goat, a ploughshare. Indeed,
there was only one thing whose shape he could not take, and that was a
needle. At least, he could transform himself into a needle, but try as
he might he never was able to imitate the hole. Every woman would
have found him out at once, and this he knew.

Now the hour oftenest chosen by this naughty sprite (whom we will
call Puck) for performing his pranks was about midnight. This was just when the
shepherds and cowherds, tired out with their long day's work, were sound
asleep. Then he would go into the cowsheds and unfasten the chains that
fixed each beast in its own stall, and let them fall with a heavy clang
to the ground. The noise was so loud that it was certain to awaken the
cowboys, however fatigued they might be. They dragged themselves
wearily to the stable to put back the chains. But no sooner had they
returned to their beds than the same thing happened again, and so on
till the morning. Or perhaps Puck would spend his night in plaiting
together the manes and tails of two of the horses, so that it would take
the grooms hours of labour to get them right in the morning. Puck,
hidden among the hay in the loft, would peep out to watch them, enjoying
himself amazingly all the time.
One evening more than eighty years ago a man named William was passing
along the bank of a stream when he noticed a sheep who was bleating
loudly. William thought it must have strayed from the flock, and that he
had better take it home with him till he could discover its owner. So
he went up to where it was standing, and as it seemed so tired that it
could hardly walk, he hoisted it on his shoulders and continued on
his way. The sheep was pretty heavy, but the good man was merciful and
staggered along as best he could under his load.

'It is not much further,' he thought to himself as he reached an avenue
of walnut trees, when suddenly a voice spoke out from over his head, and
made him jump.

'Where are you?' said the voice, and the sheep answered:

'Here on the shoulders of a donkey.'

In another moment the sheep was standing on the ground and William was
running towards home as fast as his legs would carry him. But as he
went, a laugh, which yet was something of a bleat, rang in his ears.
Though he tried not to hear, the words reached him, 'Oh, dear! What fun
I have had, to be sure!'
Puck was careful not always to play his tricks in the same place, but
visited one village after another, so that everyone trembled lest he
should be the next victim. After a bit he grew tired of cowboys and
shepherds, and wondered if there was no one else to give him some sport.
At length he was told of a young couple who were going to the nearest
town to buy all that they needed for setting up house. Quite certain
that they would forget something which they could not do without, Puck
waited patiently till they were jogging along in their cart on their
return journey. He changed himself into a fly in order to overhear
their conversation.

For a long time it was very dull--all about their wedding day next
month, and who were to be invited. This led the bride to her wedding
dress, and she gave a little scream.

'Just think! Oh! how could I be so stupid! I have forgotten to buy the
different coloured reels of cotton to match my clothes!'

'Dear, dear!' exclaimed the young man. 'That is unlucky. Didn't you
tell me that the dressmaker was coming in to-morrow?'

'Yes, I did,' and then suddenly she gave another little scream, which
had quite a different sound from the first. 'Look! Look!'
The bridegroom looked, and on one side of the road he saw a large ball
of thread of all colours. All the colours, that is, of the dresses
that were tied on to the back of the cart.

'Well, that is a wonderful piece of good fortune,' cried he, as he
sprang out to get it. 'One would think a fairy had put it there on
purpose.'

'Perhaps she has,' laughed the girl. As she spoke she seemed to hear
an echo of her laughter coming from the horse, but of course that was
nonsense.

The dressmaker was delighted with the thread that was given her. It
matched the stuffs so perfectly, and never tied itself in knots, or
broke perpetually, as most thread did. She finished her work much
quicker than she expected and the bride said she was to be sure to come
to the church and see her in her wedding dress.

There was a great crowd assembled to witness the ceremony. The young
people were immense favourites in the neighbourhood, and their parents
were very rich. The doors were open, and the bride could be seen from
afar, walking under the chestnut avenue.
'What a beautiful girl!' exclaimed the men. 'What a lovely dress!'
whispered the women. But just as she entered the church and took the
hand of the bridegroom, who was waiting for her, a loud noise was heard.

'Crick! crack! Crick! crack!' and the wedding garments fell to the
ground, to the great confusion of the wearer.

Not that the ceremony was put off for a little thing like that! Cloaks
in profusion were instantly offered to the young bride, but she was so
upset that she could hardly keep from tears. One of the guests, more
curious than the rest, stayed behind to examine the dress, determined,
if she could, to find out the cause of the disaster.

'The thread must have been rotten,' she said to herself. 'I will see if
I can break it.' But search as she would she could find none.

The thread had vanished!